FET - How to add new translations (languages)
---------------------------------------------

PLEASE E-MAIL THE AUTHOR OR THE MAILING LIST IF YOU WANT TO
TRANSLATE FET INTO YOUR LANGUAGE. ANOTHER PERSON MIGHT WORK
ON THE SAME TRANSLATION AS YOU AND TIME MIGHT BE WASTED.

PLEASE READ INSTRUCTIONS BELOW VERY CAREFULLY AND FOLLOW THEM

PLEASE FOLLOW THE ENGLISH WORDS AND DO NOT TRANSLATE A SINGLE
TERM INCOMPLETELY. EITHER TRANSLATE IT OR NOT, BUT NOT PARTIALLY.


STEP 1: You can use the fet_untranslated.ts file, just rename it
fet_**.ts (** means your language).

(alternative procedure: 
Modify the file "fet-x.x.x/src/interface/interface.pro", by adding a line
in the TRANSLATIONS section for each language (for instance, adding
a backslash after the last translation and then "fet_it.ts" for italian).

Enter the directory "fet-x.x.x/src/interface/" and type "lupdate interface.pro".
This will create the needed file, named "fet-x.x.x/translations/fet_**.ts")

STEP 2.

Open the file "fet-x.x.x/translations/fet_**.ts" (for example, fet_it.ts)
with the Qt Linguist and edit it, then save it.

You do not have to translate all the fields. For instance, the FAQ
is very large. Just leave the corresponding fields marked as unfinished.
If you want to translate very large fields (like Help), please translate it
on a separate file, as text, html or OpenOffice.org document and send it to me.
It will be put in doc/ directory and a notice will be put in Help - Menu "Help in other languages"

There are a few comments in the translation file, they are not to be translated, they just help you.
You can see that for instance in the "FET xml files" field.

STEP 3.

From Qt Linguist, release the translation as "fet-x.x.x/translations/fet_**.qm"
(for instance, fet_it.qm).

STEP 4.

Send all the three modified files to the author.


Of course, anyone can redo/improve current translations. The best variants will be chosen.


Some other details follow:

 First of all, you need a version of Qt Linguist.
 
 For GNU/Linux it is available if you type "linguist" (this is part of Qt,
probably in package libqt4-devel - probably you can install from your package manage,
or you need to get Qt from trolltech.com, the open source version).
For Windows, you will have to download
 the latest Qt from trolltech.com, the latest open source version,
 preferably the self extracting precompiled version for mingw.
 
 fet_**.ts: You will have to open this file using Qt 
 Linguist. The most useful keys are: Ctrl+Enter (activates current translation 
 and jumps to the next untranslated phrase),Ctrl+1, Ctrl+2 (first or second 
 suggestion). You can skip the large fields, like the FAQ and others. You can 
 skip also fields you cannot translate, they will remain in English. But let them
 marked as untranslated (do NOT press Ctrl+Enter on an unfinished/untranslated field,
 skip it with the mouse)

 Important note: maybe it is best to translate, in FetMainForm_template, only the field "Language" 
 both in your language and in English, separated by a slash (like: Limba/Language).
 Please keep language names untranslated (or translate them as the original), because people might choose
 a wrong language and become stucked.

 Important: please take care of difference between activity and activities,
 teacher and teachers, students and students set, time (day+hour) and hour (alone). These 
 are very important differences in constraints.
 
New, added 10 January 2009:
 Important: indications for abbreviations: IN TimetableGenerateForm: TN - teacher name, SN - subject name, StN - students name
 AT - activity tag, IN QObject: R - room, A - activity, T - teacher, S - subject, St - students, Yn - year name, No - number,
Gn - group name, Sgn - subgroup name, NA - number of activities, N - number, CSD - consecutive if same day, TN - teacher name,
MD - max days, MG - max gaps, MH - max hours, mH - min hours, WP - weight percentage, MC - max consecutive I think, 
ISH - interval start hour, IEH - interval end hour.
 
 Please try to keep the length of large fields (the ones relating to constraints) in FetMainForm_template
 to a minimum, otherwise they will look too big. This is the main menu.
 This way, the main menu will look good in your language
 (please check the main menu of FET with your translation).
 Also, in the FetMainForm_template there appear some terms like: &Help. This means that Help has
 as accelerator the letter H. You can translate in your language like: &Ajutor, preferably take care of this:
 in the same menu (like File menu) there should be unique accelerators.
 
 Please try to follow the original (English) line arrangement. That is, if you 
 meet: "Current activity's <lf>
 	description"
 you have to split your message if it is too wide (wider than the widest line). 
 For instance, the translation would be:
 	"Descrierea activitatii
 	curente"
	
 sp means space, please leave a space in your translation when seeing it, at the corresponding position.
 
New, added 10 Jan 2009:
 new line means you need to put a new line character (press Enter).
 
 Please take care to punctuation, because Linguist requires it. You have to end 
 each translation with the same punctuation mark as the English one. For 
 instance:
 	"Compulsory conflicts:"
 would become:
 	"Conflicte obligatorii:"
 If you don't do that, you will get an exclamation mark for this translation.
 
 Please translate a field preferably word-by-word as in English, and if you
 translate a field, translate it completely.
 
 You will have to save the file (in Qt Linguist) after you have done the 
 modifications (I usually save it every 10 minutes).
 
 It would be a good idea to send me the fet_**.ts file after only a few
 modifications, so I can check it if it works, so your work is not wasted. If
 that goes well, I will tell you so that you can continue working on it.
 
 Please tell me if you do not want me to put your e-mail address in the 
 TRANSLATORS field.
 
 In order to test your translation you need to release it as fet_**.qm
 and put it into the directory "translations". Then, rename the file as 
 fet_ro.qm (or any other implemented translation), overwriting the old one,
 and try the Romanian language.
 